# 01.2 Problem Description


A hospital requires a comprehensive DBMS to manage its operations efficiently. The hospital provides various services including medical appointments, patient admission and treatment. The system needs to handle information about doctors, nurses, hospital staff, departments, rooms, patients and their relatives, appointments and triage.
--
## Key Requirements:
### 1. Departments:
- Each Department has an ***ID***, Name, Start Date.
- Each Department ***MUST*** be managed by one Employee and has a start date of management.
- Each Department *MAY* have one or more Employee that works for.
- Each Department *MAY* contain one or more Rooms.
### 2. Employees:
- Each Employee has ***SSN***, ID, Name, Nationality, Date of Birth, Age, Address, Salary and phones.
- Each Employee is either a doctor or a nurse or hospital staff and can't be anything else.
- Each Employee *MAY* supervise one or more Employees.
- Each Employee ***MUST*** have a Contract.
- Each Employee *MAY* manage a department and have a start date of management.
- Each Employee ***MUST*** work in a department.
- Doctors have a specialization as an attribute.
- Each Doctor ***MUST*** have a Room.
- Doctors Make Appointments with Patients.
- Nurse *MAY* treat one or more patients.
- Nurses Perform Triage to Patients.
- Staff has a job title as one more attribute.
### 3. Contract:
- Each Contract has ***Contract ID***, Start Date and Type.
- Each Contract ***MUST*** belong to one Employee.
### 4. Patients:
- Each Patient has ***SSN***, Name, Age, Nationality, Address, Date of Birth and Registration Date.
- Patients make Appointments with Doctors.
- Patients undergo Triage Performed by Nurses.
- Each Patient *MAY* have one or more Relative registered on the system.
### 5. Patient's Relative --> *Weak Entity*:
- Each Relative has a ***Name***, a Phone Number and a Relation.
- Each Relative ***MUST*** have a Patient.
### 6. Triage:
- Each Triage has an ***ID***, Blood Pressure, Heartbeats, Sugar Level, Weight and Height.
- Triage are performed on Patients by Nurses.
### 7. Rooms:
- Each Room has a ***Room Number***, Type and Availability attribute.
- Each Room *MAY* have a doctor.
- Each Room ***MUST*** be contained by a Department.
### 8. Appointment:
- Each Appointment has an ***ID***, Date, Price and Diagnoses.
- Appointments are made between Doctors and Patients.
